# Security

- Symmetric cryptography systems:

1. DES (Old)
2. RC4
3. AES-GCM (symmetric) is used in TLS. During a TLS handshake, the client and server agree
   upon new keys to use for symmetric encryption, called "session keys." Each new communication session will start with a new TLS handshake and use new session keys.

- Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a cryptographic protocol designed to provide
  communications security over a computer network. The protocol is widely used in applications such as email, instant messaging, and voice over IP, but its use in securing HTTPS remains the most publicly visible.

- The session key: is the shared symmetric encryption key using TLS sessions to encrypt
  data being sent back and forth.

- Secure shell(SSH): is a secure network protocol that uses encryption to allow access to
  a network service over unsecured networks.

- When using public key authentication, a key pair is generated by the user who wants to
  authenticate. They then must distribute those public keys to all systems that they want to authenticate to using the key pair. When authenticating, SSH will ensure that the public key being presented matches the private key, which should never leave the user's possession.

- Asymmetric cryptography systems:

1. RSA
2. DSA ( Digital Signature Algorithm )
3. DH(Diffie-Hellman): used for key exchange
4. Pretty Good Privacy (PGP): is an encryption application that allows authentication of
   data along with privacy from third parties relying upon asymmetric encryption to achieve this. It's most commonly used for encrypted email communication, but
   it's also available as a full disk encryption solution or for encrypting arbitrary files, documents, or folders.

- The benefit of elliptic curve based encryption systems is that they are able to achieve
  security similar to traditional public key systems with smaller key sizes. So, for example, a 256 bit elliptic curve key, would be comparable to a 3,072 bit RSA key. Both Diffie-Hellman and DSA have elliptic curve variants.

- MAC (Message Authentication Codes) is a bit of information that allows authentication of
  a received message, ensuring that the message came from the alleged sender and not a third party masquerading as them. It also ensures that the message wasn't modified in some way in order to provide data integrity. A MIC only hashes the message while a MAC incorporates a secret key.

- Hashing Algorithems:

1. MD5
2. SHA 1, 2, 3 (currently 3 is used)

- PKI is a system that defines the creation, storage and distribution of digital
  certificates. A digital certificate is a file that proves that an entity owns a certain public key. A certificate contains information about the public key, the entity it belongs to and a digital signature from another party that has verified this information.

- Certificates are public keys that are signed by a certificate authority or CA as a sign
  of trust.
- Revocation list or a CRL. This is a signed list published by the CA which defines
  certificates that have been explicitly revoked.

- since the certificate is a signed public key.If we don't prove possession, there's
  nothing stopping an attacker from copyingthe certificate, since it's not considered
  secret, and pretending to be the owner.To avoid this,possession of the private key is
  verified through a challenge response mechanism.This is where the server requests a
  randomized bit of data to be signed using the private key corresponding to the public key presented for authentication.

- Self Sign Certificate: This certificate has been signed by the same entity that issued  
  the certificate.This would basically be signing your own public key using your private key.Unless you already trusted this key, this certificate would fail to verify.

- SSL or TLS client certificate: This is an optional component of SSL, TLS connections and
  is less commonly seen than server certificates. As the name implies, these are certificates that are bound to clients and are used to authenticate the client to the server, allowing access control to a SSL, TLS service.

- code signing certificates which are used for signing executable programs. This allows
  users of these signed applications to verify the signatures and ensure that the application was not tampered with. It also lets them verify that the application came from the software author and is not a malicious twin.

- X.509 standard is what defines the format of digital certificates. It also defines a
  certificate revocation list or CRL which is a means to distribute a list of certificates that are no longer valid.
- IPsec, or Internet Protocol Security, is a VPN protocol that was designed in conjunction
  with IPv6. It was originally required to be standards compliant with IPv6 implementations, but was eventually dropped as a requirement.It is optional for use with IPv6. IPsec works by encrypting an IP packet and encapsulating the encrypted packet inside an IPsec packet. This encrypted packet then gets routed to the VPN endpoint where the packet is de-encapsulated and decrypted then sent to the final destination.

- IPsec supports two modes of operations, transport mode and tunnel mode. When transport mode is used, only the payload of the IP packet is encrypted,leaving the IP headers untouched. Heads up that authentication headers are also used. Header values are hashed and verified, along with the transport and application layers. This would prevent the use of anything that would modify these values,like NAT or PAT.In tunnel mode, the entire IP packet, header, payload, and all, is encrypted and encapsulated inside a new IP packet with new headers.While not a VPN solution itself, L2TP, or Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol, is typically used to support VPNs. A common implementation of L2TP is in conjunction with IPsec when data confidentially is needed, since L2TP doesn't provide encryption itself.
  It's a simple tunneling protocol that allows encapsulation of different protocols or
  traffic over a network that may not support the type of traffic being sent. L2TP can also just segregate and manage the traffic. ISPs will use the L2TP to deliver network access to a customer's endpoint,for example.The combination of L2TP and IPsec is referred to as L2TP IPsec and was officially standardized in ietf RFC 3193.

- The tunnel is provided by L2TP, which permits the passing of unmodified packets from one network to another. The secure channel, on the other hand, is provided by IPsec, which provides confidentiality, integrity, and authentication of data being passed.

- SSL TLS is also used in some VPN implementations to secure network traffic, as opposed to individual sessions or connections. An example of this is OpenVPN, which uses the OpenSSL library to handle key exchange and encryption of data, along with control channels. OpenVPN can operate over either TCP or UDP, typically over port 1194. It can either rely on a Layer 3 IP tunnel or a Layer 2 Ethernet tap. The Ethernet tap is more flexible, allowing it to carry a wider range of traffic.

- Trusted Platform Module or TPM. This is a hardware device that's typically integrated into the hardware of a computer, that's a dedicated crypto processor. TPM offers secure generation of keys, random number generation, remote attestation, and data binding and sealing. A TPM has unique secret RSA key burned into the hardware at the time of manufacture, which allows a TPM to perform things like hardware authentication.

- Remote attestation is the idea of a system authenticating its software and hardware configuration to a remote system. This enables the remote system to determine the integrity of the remote system. This can be done using a TPM by generating a secure hash of the system configuration, using the unique RSA key embedded in the TPM itself.

- Binding and sealing. It involves using the secret key to derive a unique key that's then used for encryption of data. Basically, this binds encrypted data to the TPM and by extension, the system the TPM is installed in, sends only the keys stored in hardware in the TPM will be able to decrypt the data.

- Mobile devices have something similar referred to as a secure element. Similar to a TPM, it's a tamper resistant chip often embedded in the microprocessor or integrated into the mainboard of a mobile device. It supplies secure storage of cryptographic keys and provides a secure environment for applications.

- Trusted Execution Environment or TEE which takes the concept a bit further. It provides a full-blown isolated execution environment that runs alongside the main OS. This provides isolation of the applications from the main OS and other applications installed there. It also isolates secure processes from each other when running in the TEE.

- Full Disk Encryption or FDE, as you might have guessed from the name, is the practice of encrypting the entire drive in the system. Not just sensitive files in the system. This allows us to protect the entire contents of the disk from data theft or tampering. there are a bunch of options for implementing FDE. Like the commercial product PGP, Bitlocker from Microsoft, which integrates very well with TPMs, Filevault 2 from Apple, and the open source software dm-crypt, which provides encryption for Linux systems.

---

- Universal 2nd Factor (U2F): is an open standard that strengthens and simplifies two-factor authentication (2FA) using specialized Universal Serial Bus (USB) or near-field communication (NFC) devices based on similar security technology found in smart cards.

- RADIUS or Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service,is a protocol that provides AAA
  services for users on a network. used to manage access to internal networks,WiFi
  networks, email services and VPN services. carry a wide variety of standard
  authentication protocols like EAP or Extensible Authentication Protocol.Clients who want to authenticate to a RADIUS server don't directly interact with it. Instead, when a client wants to access a resource that's protected, the client will present authentication credentials to a NAS or Network Access Server which will relay the credentials to the RADIUS server. The RADIUS server will then verify the credentials using a configured authentication scheme. RADIUS servers can verify user authentication information stored in a flat file or can plug into external sources like SQL databases, LDAP, Kerberos or Active Directory. Once the RADIUS server has evaluated the user authentication request, it replies with one of three messages access reject, access challenge or access accept.

- Kerberos is a network authentication protocol that uses tickets to allow entities to prove their identity over potentially insecure channels to provide mutual authentication. It also uses symmetric encryption to protect protocol messages from eavesdropping and replay attacks. Microsoft also implemented their own Kerberos service with some modifications to the open protocol like the addition of the RC 4 Stream Cipher. tickets earlier which is a sort of token that proves your identity. They can be used for authenticating to services protected using Kerberos or in other words or within the Kerberos realm.

- Kerberos has received some criticism because it's a single monolithic service. This creates a single point of failure danger. If the Kerberos service goes down, new users won't be able to authenticate and log in. Aside from the availability issues, if the central Kerberos server is compromised, the attacker would be able to impersonate any user by generating valid Kerberos tickets for their user account. Kerberos enforces strict time requirements requiring the client and server clocks to be relatively closely synchronized, otherwise, authentication will fail. This is usually accomplished by using NTP to keep both parties synchronized using an NTP server.The trust model of Kerberos is also problematic, since it requires clients and services to have an established trust in the Kerberos server in order to authenticate using Kerberos. This means, it's not possible for users to authenticate using Kerberos from unknown or untrusted clients. So things like BYOD or Bring Your Own Device, and cloud computing are incompatible, or at least very challenging to implement securely with Kerberos authentication.

- TACACS+ pronounced TACACS plus. It stands for Terminal Access controller Access-Control System Plus. It's a Cisco developed AAA protocol TACACS+ is primarily used for device administration, authentication, authorization, and accounting, as opposed to RADIUS, which is mostly used for network access AAA. TACACS+ is mainly used as an authentication system for network infrastructure devices, which tend to be high value targets for attackers.

- Single Sign-On or SSO is an authentication concept that allows users to authenticate once to be granted access to a lot of different services and applications. SSO is accomplished by authenticating to a central authentication server, like an LDAP server. This then provides a cookie, or token that can be used to get access to applications configured to use SSO. Kerberos is actually a good example of an SSO authentication service. The user would authenticate against the Kerberos service once, which would then grant them a ticket granting ticket. This can then be presented to the ticket granting service in place of traditional credentials. So, the user can enter credentials once and gain access to a variety of services. this opens a new channel of attack, theft of SSO session cookies or tokens. Instead of targeting credentials directly, attackers can try to steal the SSO tokens directly which will permit wide access if even for a short amount of time. Stealing these tokens, also lets an attacker dodge multifactor authentication protections since the session token permits access without requiring full authentication until the token expires.

- Example of an SSO system is the **openID**, the centralized authentication system. This is an open standard that allows participating sites known as Relying Parties to allow authentication of users utilizing a third party authentication service. This allows sites to permit authentication without requiring the site itself to have authentication infrastructure, which can be tricky to implement and maintain. It also lets users access the site without requiring them to create a new account, simplifying access management across a wide variety of sites. Instead, a user just needs to already have an account with an identity provider. To ask for authentication, first a relying party looks up the openID provider, then establishes a shared secret with the provider if one doesn't already exist. The shared secret will be used to validate the openID provider messages. Then, the user will be redirected or asked to authenticate in a new window through the identities provider's log and flow. Once authenticated, the user will be prompted to confirm if they trust the relying party or not. Once confirmed, credentials are relayed to the relying party, typically in the form of a token not actual user credentials which indicates the user is now authenticated to the service.

- OAuth is an open standard that allows users to grant third-party websites and applications access to their information without sharing account credentials. OAuth is specificall an authorization system and OpenID is an authentication system. Though they're usually used together, OpenID Connect is an authentication layer built on top of OAuth 2.0 designed to improve upon OpenID and build better integration with OAuth authorizations.

- TACACS plus is a full AAA system, it also handles authorization along with authentication. This is done once a user is authenticated by allowing or disallowing access for the user account to run certain commands or access certain devices. This lets you not only allow admin access for users that administer devices while still allowing less privileged access to other users when necessary.

- RADIUS also allows you to authorize network access.

- Accounting. This means, keeping records of what resources and services your users access or what they did when they were using your systems. A critical component of this is **auditing**, which involves reviewing these records to ensure that nothing is out of the ordinary. For example, a **TACACS+** server would be more concerned with keeping track of user authentication, what systems they authenticated to, and what commands they ran during their session. This is because TACACS+ plus is a device access AAA system that manages who has access to your network devices and what they do on them. **Radius** can used t monitor the internet usage and to limit the intenet usage but can't be used used t monitor the content of the traffic.

- Implicit deny is a network security concept where anything not explicitly permitted or allowed should be denied.

- Correlation analysis is the process of taking log data from different systems, and matching events across the systems.

- One popular and powerful logs analysis system is Splunk, a very flexible and extensible log aggregation and search system. Splunk can grab logs data from a wide variety of systems, and in large amounts of formats. It can also be configured to generate alerts, and allows for powerful visualization of activity based on logged data.

- Flood guards provide protection against Dos or denial of service attacks.This is usually a feature on enterprise grade routers or firewalls, though it's a general security concept. A common open source flood guard protection tool is Fail2ban. It watches for signs of an attack on a system, and blocks further attempts from a suspected attack address. Fail to ban is a popular tool for smaller scale organizations.

- Network separation or network segmentation is a good security principle for an IT support specialists to implement. It permits more flexible management of the network, and provides some security benefits. This is the concept of using VLANs to create virtual networks for different device classes or types.

---

- Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a protocol that enables network communications to reach a specific device on the network. ARP translates Internet Protocol (IP) addresses to a Media Access Control (MAC) address, and vice versa. Most commonly, devices use ARP to contact the router or gateway that enables them to connect to the Internet.

- If an attacker can manage to deploy a rogue DHCP server on your network, they could hand out DHCP leases with whatever information they want. This includes setting a gateway address or DNS server, that's actually a machine within their control. This gives them access to your traffic and opens the door for future attacks. We call this type of attack a rogue DHCP server attack. To protect against this rogue DHCP server attack, enterprise switches offer a feature called DHCP snooping.

- DHCP snooping. A switch that has DHCP snooping will monitor DHCP traffic being sent across it. It will also track IP assignments and map them to hosts connected to switch ports. This basically builds a map of assigned IP addresses to physical switch ports. This information can also be used to protect against IP spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks. DHCP snooping also makes you designate either a trusted DHCP server IP, if it's operating as a DHCP helper, and forwarding DHCP requests to the server, or you can enable DHCP snooping trust on the uplinked port, where legitimate DHCP responses would now come from.

- Dynamic ARP inspection. We covered ARP earlier from the how does it function standpoint. ARP allows for a layer to men-in-the-middle attack because of the unauthenticated nature of ARP. It allows an attacker to forge an ARP response, advertising its MAC address as the physical address matching a victim's IP address. This type of ARP response is called a gratuitous ARP response, since it's effectively answering a query that no one made. When this happens, all of the clients on the local network segment would cache this ARP entry. Because of the forged ARP entry, they send frames intended for the victim's IP address to the attacker's machine instead. Dynamic ARP inspection or DAI is another feature on enterprise switches that prevents this type of attack. It requires the use of DHCP snooping to establish a trusted binding of IP addresses to switch ports. DAI will detect these forged gratuitous ARP packets and drop them. It does this because it has a table from DHCP snooping that has the authoritative IP address assignments per port. DAI also enforces great limiting of ARP packets per port to prevent ARP scanning.

- IP spoofing attacks, IP source guard or (IPSG) can be enabled on enterprise switches along with DHCP snooping. it works by using the DHCP snooping table to dynamically create ACLs for each switchboard. This drops packets that don't match the IP address for the port based on the DHCP snooping table.

- If you really want to lock down your network, you can implement 802.1X. This is the IEEE standard for encapsulating EAP or Extensible Authentication Protocol traffic over the 802 networks. This is also called EAP over LAN or EAPOL, it was originally designed for Ethernet but support was added for other network types like Wi-Fi and fiber networks. EAP-TLS since it's one of the more common and secure EAP methods. When a client wants to authenticate to a network using 802.1X, there are three parties involved. The client device is what we call the supplicant. It's sometimes also used to refer to the software running on the client machine that handles the authentication process for the user. The open source Linux utility wpa_supplicant is one of those. The supplicant communicates with the authenticator, which acts as a sort of gatekeeper for the network. It requires clients to successfully authenticate to the network before they're allowed to communicate with the network. This is usually an enterprise switch or an access point in the case of wireless networks. It's important to call out that while the supplicant communicates with the authenticator, it's not actually the authenticator that makes the authentication decision. The authenticator acts like a go between and forwards the authentication request to the authentication server. That's where the actual credential verification and authentication occurs. The authentication server is usually a **RADIUS server**

- EAP-TLS is an authentication type supported by EAP that uses TLS to provide mutual authentication of both the client and the authenticating server. **This is considered one of the more secure configurations for wireless security.** most EAP-TLS implementations require client-side certificates. Authentication can be certificate-based, which requires a client to present a valid certificate that's signed by the authenticating CA, or a client can use a certificate in conjunction with a username, password, and even a second factor of authentication, like a one-time password The security of EAP-TLS stems from the inherent security that the TLS protocol and PKI provide. That also means that the pitfalls are the same when it comes to properly managing PKI elements. You have to safeguard private keys appropriately and ensure distribution of the CA certificate to client devices to allow verification of the server-side. Even more secure configuration for EAP-TLS would be to bind the client-side certificates to the client platforms using TPMs. This would prevent theft of the certificates from client machines.

- IEEE 802 networks are deployed in locations that provide access to critical data, support mission critical applications, or charge for service. Port-based network access control regulates access to the network, guarding against attacks by unauthorized parties, network disruption, and data loss.

- A host-based firewall provides protection for mobile devices such as a laptop that could be used in an untrusted, potentially malicious environment like an airport Wi-Fi hotspot. Host-based firewalls are also useful for protecting other hosts from being compromised, by corrupt device on the internal network. That's something a network-based firewall may not be able to help defend against.All major operating systems have built in ones today.
  It's also very likely that your company will have some kind of network-based firewall.
  Your router at home even has a network-based firewall built in.

- WEP uses RC4 which is a weak symmetric encryption algorithm.
- WAP uses TKIP or the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol.
  TKIP implemented three new features that made it more secure than WEP.
  First, a more secure key derivation method was used to more
  securely incorporate the IV into the per packet encryption key.
  Second, a sequence counter was implemented to
  prevent replay attacks by rejecting out of order packets.
  Third, a 64-bit MIC or Message Integrity Check was introduced to prevent forging,
  tampering, or corruption of packets.
  TKIP still use the RC4 cipher as the underlying encryption algorithm.
  But it addressed the key generation weaknesses of WEP by using
  a key mixing function to generate unique encryption keys per packet.
  It also utilizes 256 bit long keys.
  This key mixing function incorporates the long live the Wi-Fi passphrase with the IV.

- Under WPA, the pre-shared key is the Wi-Fi password
  you share with people when they come over and want to use your wireless network.
  This is not directly used to encrypt traffic.
  It's used as a factor to derive the encryption key.
  The passphrase is fed into the PBKDF2 or Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2,
  along with the Wi-Fi networks SSID as a salt.
  This is then run through the HMAC-SHA1 function
  4096 times to generate a unique encryption key.
  The SSID salt is incorporated to help defend against rainbow table attacks.
  The 4096 rounds of
  HMAC-SHA1 Increase the computational power required for a brute force attack.
  I should call out that the pre-shared key can be entered using two different methods.
  A 64 character hexadecimal value can be entered,
  when the 64 character value is used as the key,
  which is 64 hexadecimal characters times four bits,
  which is 256 bits.
  The other option is to use
  PBKDF2 function but only if entering ASCII characters as a passphrase.
  If that's the case, the passphrase can be anywhere from eight to 63 characters long

- WPA2 improve WPA security even more by implementing
  CCMP or Counter Mode CBC-MAC Protocol.
  WPA2 is the best security for wireless networks currently available, It's based on the AES cipher finally getting away from the insecure RC4 cipher.

- The WPA and WPA2 standard also introduce an 802.1x authentication to Wi-Fi networks.
  It's usually called WPA2-Enterprise.
  The non-802.1x configurations are called either WPA2-Personal or WPA2-PSK,
  since they use a pre-shared key to authenticate clients.

- WPS or Wi-Fi protected setup is a convenience feature designed to make it easier for clients to join a WPA-PSK protected network. You might encounter WPS in a small IT shop that uses commercial SOHO routers. It can be useful in these smaller environments to make it easier to join wireless clients to the wireless networks securely. But there are security implications to having enabled that you should be aware of. The Wi-Fi Alliance introduced WPS in 2006. It provides several different methods that allow our wireless client to securely join a wireless network without having to directly enter the pre-shared key.

- Promiscuous Mode: is a special mode for Ethernet network interfaces that basically says,
  "Give me all the packets." Instead of only accepting and handling packets destined for its address, it will now accept and process any packet that it sees. This is much more useful for network analysis or monitoring purposes. I should also call out that admin or root privileges are needed to place an interface into promiscuous mode and to begin to capture packets.

- if your machine was inserted between the uplink port of
  the switch and the uplink device further upstream now you'd
  have access to all packets in and out of that local network segment.
  Enterprise manage switches usually have a feature called Port Mirroring,
  which helps with this type of scenario.

- Port Mirroring, allows the switch to take all packets from a specified port,
  port range, or the entire VLAN and mirror the packets to a specified switch port.
  This lets you gain access to all packets
  passing on a switch in a more convenient and secure way.

- if we wanted to capture and analyze
  all wireless traffic that we're able to receive in the immediate area,
  we can place our wireless interface into a mode called monitor mode.
  Monitor mode, allows us to scan across channels to
  see all wireless traffic being sent by APs and clients.

- You need to be near enough to the AP and client to receive a signal, and then you can begin capturing traffic right out of the air. There are a number of open source wireless capture and monitoring utilities, like Aircrack-ng and Kismet.

- Both tcpdump and wireshark uses the libpcap library for capture andinterpretation of packets.

- Wireshark can decode encrypted payloads if the encryption key is known. It can identify and extract data payloads from file transfers through protocols like SMB or HTTP. Wireshark's understanding of application level protocols even extends to its filter strings. This allows filter rules like finding HTTP requests with specific strings in the URL, which would look like, http.request.uri matches "q=wireshark". That filter string would locate packets in our capture that contain a URL request that has the specified string within it. In this case it would match a query parameter from a URL searching for Wireshark. While this could be done using tcpdump, it's much easier using Wireshark.

- Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems or IDS/IPS.
IDS or IPS systems operate by monitoring network traffic and analyzing it. IDS is only a detection system.
It won't take action to block or prevent an attack,
when one is detected,
it will only log an alert. IPS system can adjust firewall rules on the fly,
to block or drop the malicious traffic when it's detected. 

- port mirroring functionality found in many enterprise switches.
This allows all packets on a port, port range,
or entire VLAN to be mirrored to another port,
where NIDS host would be connected. NIDS host must have at least two network interfaces.
One is for monitoring an analysis,
and a separate one is for connecting to
our network for management and administrative purposes.
Some popular NID or NIP systems are Snort, Suricata,
and Bro NIDS.

- Placement of a NIP system or Network Intrusion Prevention system,
would differ from a NIDS system.
This is because of a prevention system being able to
take action against a suspected malicious traffic.
In order for a NIPS device to block or drop traffic from a detected threat,
it must be placed in line with the traffic being monitored.
This means, that the traffic that's being monitored must pass through the NIPS device.
If it wasn't the case,
the NIPS host wouldn't be able to take action on suspected traffic. 

- The detection of threats or malicious traffic is
usually handled through signature based detection,
similar to how antivirus software detects malware. Signatures are unique characteristics of known malicious traffic.
They might be specific sequences of packets,
or packets with certain values encoded in the specific header field. 

- Unified Threat Management (UTM) systems offer multiple options in a comprehensive suite of network security tools. UTM solutions can be implemented as hardware and/or software and can protect either a single host or an entire network. UTM security services and tool options include firewalls, IDS, IPS, antivirus and anti-malware software, spam gateways, web and content filters, data leak/loss prevention, and VPN services. 

- Antivirus software: Uses a signature database to obtain the profiles of malicious files, such as spyware, Trojans, malware, worms, and more. The antivirus software monitors the organization’s network and systems for these virus signatures. Once identified, the software will block, quarantine, or destroy them.

- Anti-malware software: Scans information streams for known malicious malware signatures and blocks threats. Additionally, anti-malware software can use heuristic analysis to detect novel malware threats by identifying key behaviors and characteristics. The software can also use sandboxing to isolate suspicious files. 

- Spam gateway: Filters, identifies, and quarantines spam email. Spam gateways are network servers that use Domain Name Server (DNS) management tools to protect against spam.

- Data leak/loss prevention (DLP): Monitors outgoing network traffic for personal, sensitive, and confidential data. DLP includes a verification system to determine if the external data transfer is authorized or malicious, and can block unauthorized attempts. 

- Defense in depth is the concept of having
multiple overlapping systems of defense to protect IT systems.
This ensures some amount of redundancy for defensive measures. 

- attack vector is a method or mechanism by which
an attacker or malware gains access to a network or system. 

-  Attack Surface is the sum of all the different attack vectors in a given system.
Think of this as the combination of
all possible ways an attacker could interact with our system,
regardless of known vulnerabilities.

- Bastion host is a dedicated server that lets authorized users access a private network from an external network such as the internet. Placed outside the firewall or within a DMZ, the bastion host becomes the only ingress path to those internal resources. Access control becomes easier to manage while minimizing the potential attack surface.

- Security information and event management systems (SIEMS): can be thought of as a centralized log server for security administration purposes. It has some extra analysis features too. A SIEM system gets logs from a bunch of other systems. It consolidates the logs from all different places and places it in one centralized location. Some examples of logging servers and SIEMS solutions are the open source rsylog, Splunk Enterprise Security, IBM Security Qradar, and RSA Security analytics.

- Microsoft 365 Defender can help to provide enterprise-wide security through an integrated suite of tools. It offers tools to prevent attacks, detect threats, investigate security breaches, and coordinate effective response strategies.

- While antivirus operates on a blacklist model, checking against a list of known bad things and blocking what gets matched, there's a class of anti malware software that does the opposite. Binary whitelisting software operates off a white list. It's a list of known good and trusted software and only things that are on the list are permitted to run. Everything else is blocked. You can think of this as applying the implicit deny ACL rule to software execution. By default, everything is blocked. Only things explicitly allowed to execute are able to. I should call out that this typically only applies to executable binaries, not arbitrary files like PDF documents or text files.

- Full-disk encryption, or FDE, is an important factor in a defense in-depth security model. It provides protection from some physical forms of attack. Since disk encryption not only provides confidentiality but also integrity. This means that an attacker with physical access to a system can't replace system files with malicious ones or install malware. Having the disk fully encrypted protects from data theft and unauthorized tampering even if an attacker has physical access to the disk.

- In order for a system to boot if it has an FDE setup, there are some critical files that must be accessible. They need to be available before the primary disk can be unlocked and the boot process can continue. Because of this, all FDE setups have an unencrypted partition on the disk, which holds these critical boot files. Examples include things like the kernel and bootloader, that are critical to the operating system. These files are actually vulnerable to being replaced with modified potentially malicious files by an attacker with physical access. While it's possible to compromise a machine this way, it would take a sophisticated and determined attacker to do it.

-  The secure boot protocol, which is part of the UEFI specification. Secure boot uses public key cryptography to secure these encrypted elements of the boot process. It does this by integrated code signing and verification of the boot files. Initially, secure boot is configured with what's called a platform key, which is the public key corresponding to the private key used to sign the boot files. This platform key is written to firmware and is used at boot-time to verify the signature of the boot files. Only files correctly signed and trusted will be allowed to execute. This way, a secure boot protects against physical tampering with the unencrypted boot partition. There are first-party full-disk encryption solutions from Microsoft and Apple called Bit Locker and FileVault 2 respectively. There are also a bunch of third party and open source solutions. On Linux, the dm-crypt package is super popular. There are also solutions from PGP, TrueCrypt, VeraCrypt, and lots of others. Full-disk encryption schemes rely on the secret key for actual encryption and decryption operations. They typically password-protect access to this key. And in some cases, the actual encryption key is used to derive a user key, which is then used to encrypt the master key.  When you implement a full-disk encryption solution at scale, it's super important to think about how to handle cases where passwords are forgotten. This is another convenience tradeoff when using FDE. If the passphrase is forgotten, then the contents of the disk aren't recoverable.

- Key escrow allows encryption key to be securely stored for later retrieval by an authorized party. So if someone forgets the passphrase to unlock their encrypted disk for their laptop, the systems administrators are able to retrieve the escrow key or recovery passphrase to unlock the disk. It's usually a separate key passphrase that can unlock the disk in addition to the user to find one.

-  File-based encryption. That's where only some files or folders are encrypted and not the entire disk. This is usually implemented as home directory encryption. It serves a slightly different purpose compared to FDE. Home directory or file-based encryption only guarantees confidentiality and integrity of files protected by encryption. These setups usually don't encrypt system files because there are often compromises between security and usability. When the whole disk isn't encrypted, it's possible to remotely reboot a machine without being locked out. If you reboot a full-disk encrypted machine, the disk unlock password must be entered before the machine finishes booting and is reachable over the network again.
